CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Altinn

We love your input! We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as possible, whether it's:

- Reporting a bug
- Discussing the current state of the code
- Submitting a fix
- Proposing new features
- Coding and submitting new features (but please write a comment tagging @lvbachmann in the corresponding [issue(s)](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues) in our backlog before you do)

## We develop with GitHub

We use GitHub to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.

## Pull Requests

Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase. We actively welcome your pull requests:

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `master`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. Issue that pull request!

## Any contributions you make will be under the 3-Clause BSD License Software License

In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same liberal [3-Clause BSD License](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/LICENSE.md) that covers the project. Feel free to contact the maintainers if that's a concern.

## Report bugs using GitHub issues

We use GitHub [issues](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues) to track public bugs.
Report a bug by [opening a new issue](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues/new); it's that easy!

### Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code

**Great Bug Reports** tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can (and if relevant).
  - Provide screenshots (if relevant).
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or stuff you tried that didn't work)

People *love* thorough bug reports. I'm not even kidding.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under its [3-Clause BSD License](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

How to tell us what you want us to prioritise (#5124)
Co-authored-by: Bachmann <lars.vegard.bachmann@digdir.no>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Altinn

We love your input! We want to make contributing to this project as easy and transparent as possible, whether it's:

- Reporting a bug
- Discussing the current state of the code
- Submitting a fix
- Proposing new features
- Coding and submitting new features (but please write a comment tagging @lvbachmann in the corresponding [issue(s)](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues) in our backlog before you do)
- Telling us what you want us to prioritise - by adding a :heart: or :+1: to the issue.

## We develop with GitHub

We use GitHub to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.

## Pull Requests

Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase. We actively welcome your pull requests:

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `master`.
2. If you've added code that should be tested, add tests.
3. If you've changed APIs, update the documentation.
4. Ensure the test suite passes.
5. Make sure your code lints.
6. Issue that pull request!

## Any contributions you make will be under the 3-Clause BSD License Software License

In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same liberal [3-Clause BSD License](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/LICENSE.md) that covers the project. Feel free to contact the maintainers if that's a concern.

## Report bugs using GitHub issues

We use GitHub [issues](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues) to track public bugs.
Report a bug by [opening a new issue](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/issues/new); it's that easy!

### Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code

**Great Bug Reports** tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can (and if relevant).
  - Provide screenshots (if relevant).
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or stuff you tried that didn't work)

People *love* thorough bug reports. I'm not even kidding.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under its [3-Clause BSD License](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/LICENSE.md).
