src/test/cypress/README.md, before:

# Cypress Tests

This project has the tests using [cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) for studio and app frontend that is running locally.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you run the integration tests on local studio.

### Install dependencies

```cmd
    yarn --immutable # only needed first time, or when dependencies are updated
```

### Starting the solutions for testing studio

The [Prerequisites](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/tree/master/src/studio#prerequisites) defined here must be satisifed to start the solution.

The tests require that the solution has to be started with captcha settings disabled.

Remove the mounted volume of studio gitea using `docker-compose down -v` (only needed first time)

Disable the captcha for user registration by making `ENABLE_CAPTCHA` to `false` in this [file](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/studio/src/repositories/gitea-data/gitea/conf/app.ini#L80).

Start the solution by following the procedure [here](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/tree/master/src/studio#running-solutions-locally).

### Test data prerequisite

An admin user has to be created in local studio and an access token should be created in the user settings -> applications.

Create a new file name `cypress.env.json` under `src\test\cypress` with the data created above.

```json
{
  "adminUser": "",
  "adminPwd": "",
  "accessToken": "",
  "testUserName": "",
  "testUserPwd": ""
}
```

### Run Altinn Studio tests

The commands should be run in an order that makes sure the tests are intact on the subsequent runs.

1. Setup: Before all the tests

```cmd
    yarn run before:all -e environment=local
```

2. Tests on different solutions of studio

```cmd
    yarn run test:studio -e environment=local,component=studio
```

3. Cleanup: After all the tests

```cmd
    yarn run after:all -e environment=local
```

### Run App Frontend tests

Follow the steps below to start localtest, app frontend, app and the tests.

1. Create testfiles that are used by the tests as attachments in app instances.

```cmd
    yarn run create:testfiles # only needed first time, or when files are deleted from e2e/fixtures
```

2. Clone the app (frontend-test) to be tested and update config in `package.json` with the paths.

3. Start localtest, app frontend, app. (Hop over to step 4 if the solutions are already running)

```cmd
    yarn run before:appfrontend
```

If one has the frontend dependencies installed from before, run the below command.

```cmd
    yarn run before:appfrontend-no-deps
```

4. Start the app frontend tests from a new git bash terminal.

```cmd
    yarn run test:appfrontend -e environment=local,component=appfrontend
```

To run the tests towards AT21, an altinn user credential has to be supplied [here](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/tree/master/src/test/cypress#test-data-prerequisite).

```cmd
    yarn run test:appfrontend -e environment=at21,component=appfrontend
```

5. To run a single test case open cypress runner using

```cmd
    yarn run cy:open -e environment=local,component=appfrontend
```

### Format files with prettier

```cmd
    yarn run prettier:check # For checking the files deviating standards
    yarn run prettier:format # format and save the files based on config
```

Commit message:

Test/fix test for local studio (#7993)
* removed faker and updated scripts

* removed use of faker and updated readme

* refactoring for running tests on local studio

* handle test data for local run in dashboard tests

* handle test data in dashboard test

* updated readme

src/test/cypress/README.md, after:

# Cypress Tests

This project has the tests using [cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) for studio and app frontend that is running locally.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you run the integration tests on local studio.

### Install dependencies

```cmd
    yarn --immutable # only needed first time, or when dependencies are updated
```

### Starting the solutions for testing studio

The [Prerequisites](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/tree/master/src/studio#prerequisites) defined here must be satisifed to start the solution.

The tests require that the solution has to be started with captcha settings disabled.

Remove the mounted volume of studio gitea using `docker-compose down -v` (only needed first time)

Disable the captcha for user registration by making `ENABLE_CAPTCHA` to `false` in this [file](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/blob/master/src/studio/src/repositories/gitea-data/gitea/conf/app.ini#L80).

Start the solution by following the procedure [here](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/tree/master/src/studio#running-solutions-locally).

### Test data prerequisite

An admin user has to be created in local studio and an access token should be created in the user settings -> applications.

Create a new file name `cypress.env.json` under `src\test\cypress` with the data created above.

```json
{
  "adminUser": "",
  "adminPwd": "",
  "accessToken": "",
  "testUserName": "",
  "testUserPwd": ""
}
```

### Run Altinn Studio tests

The commands should be run in an order that makes sure the tests are intact on the subsequent runs.

**Note:** Use cmd or git bash to run the scripts.

1. Setup: Before all the tests

```cmd
    yarn run before:all
```

2. Tests on different solutions of studio

```cmd
    yarn run test:studio -e environment=local,component=studio
```

3. Cleanup: After all the tests

```cmd
    yarn run after:all
```

### Run App Frontend tests

Follow the steps below to start localtest, app frontend, app and the tests.

**Note:** Use cmd or git bash to run the scripts.

1. Create testfiles that are used by the tests as attachments in app instances.

```cmd
    yarn run create:testfiles # only needed first time, or when files are deleted from e2e/fixtures
```

2. Clone the app (frontend-test) to be tested and update config in `package.json` with the paths.

3. Start localtest, app frontend, app. (Hop over to step 4 if the solutions are already running)

```cmd
    yarn run before:appfrontend
```

If one has the frontend dependencies installed from before, run the below command.

```cmd
    yarn run before:appfrontend-no-deps
```

4. Start the app frontend tests from a new git bash terminal.

```cmd
    yarn run test:appfrontend -e environment=local,component=appfrontend
```

To run the tests towards AT21, an altinn user credential has to be supplied [here](https://github.com/Altinn/altinn-studio/tree/master/src/test/cypress#test-data-prerequisite).

```cmd
    yarn run test:appfrontend -e environment=at21,component=appfrontend
```

5. To run a single test case open cypress runner using

```cmd
    yarn run cy:open -e environment=local,component=appfrontend
```

### Format files with prettier

```cmd
    yarn run prettier:check # For checking the files deviating standards
    yarn run prettier:format # format and save the files based on config
```
